_docs/08_deploy/gh-pages.md, before:

---
title: GitHub Pages
stub: gh-pages
section: deploy
section_order: 1
---

{:.py-4 .mt-4 #gh-pages}
***
{% include bootstrap/alert.md color="warning" text="#### **GH Users**:" %}

### Enabling GitHub Pages

1. In your GitHub account, click on the "Settings" button at the top right of your repository page
2. When you're on the settings page, scroll down to the “GitHub Pages” section. 
3. Change the "source" dropdown button from “none” to “master," which will cause the page to refresh. 
4. Scroll back down to the GitHub Pages section. You'll see a blue alert that indicates your website is being built. 
5. Wait a couple minutes, then refresh the page (or just refresh constantly). The alert will change to green when the site is ready. When it does, click on the URL that appears in the GitHub Pages box to check out your site!!!
6. To make your site's URL easy to access in the future, copy the site URL and go back to your repository's main page. 
7. At the right-hand side of the top of the page, click on the "Edit" button.
8. Add your copied URL to the website section and click “Save" -- This will let you easily access the generated site whenever you come to edit the page.

{:.alert .alert-success}
Congratulations! Your site is now live. **GH users** can now move on to the [Advanced Topics](advanced.html) section.

Commit message:

tweak docs for main vs master branch

_docs/08_deploy/gh-pages.md, after:

---
title: GitHub Pages
stub: gh-pages
section: deploy
section_order: 1
---

{:.py-4 .mt-4 #gh-pages}
***
{% include bootstrap/alert.md color="warning" text="#### **GH Users**:" %}

### Enabling GitHub Pages

1. In your GitHub account, click on the "Settings" button at the top right of your repository page
2. When you're on the settings page, scroll down to the “GitHub Pages” section. 
3. Change the "source" dropdown button from "none" to "main" (or "master" if that is your default branch) which will cause the page to refresh. 
4. Scroll back down to the GitHub Pages section. You'll see a blue alert that indicates your website is being built. 
5. Wait a couple minutes, then refresh the page (or just refresh constantly). The alert will change to green when the site is ready. When it does, click on the URL that appears in the GitHub Pages box to check out your site!!!
6. To make your site's URL easy to access in the future, copy the site URL and go back to your repository's main page. 
7. At the right-hand side of the top of the page, click on the "Edit" button.
8. Add your copied URL to the website section and click “Save" -- This will let you easily access the generated site whenever you come to edit the page.

{:.alert .alert-success}
Congratulations! Your site is now live. **GH users** can now move on to the [Advanced Topics](advanced.html) section.
