_about/community.md, before:

---
title: Join Us!
sectionid: community
section_order: 5
---

## I'm interested. How can I get involved? 

If you, or some institution you know, might be interested in adopting this tool more seriously, we can help. Please [get in touch](mailto:omwikle@uidaho.edu) and help us guide the future of CollectionBuilder.

- **Feedback!** - If you have thoughts on the documentation, tool, visualizations, user interactions, or any other features in the tool, please *please* **please** provide us with feedback. Our intention in doing workshops and presentations is to gather feedback on the tool so that CollectionBuilder can continue to grow, becoming more useable and useful.
- **Contribute** - If you take to the static web development model and would like to provide contributions of your own to our tool, we would LOVE to work with you and incorporate any contributions you might make. We have a [code of conduct](https://github.com/CollectionBuilder/collectionbuilder.github.io/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) for contributors.

<div class="row">
<div class="col-md-4" markdown="1">
{:.text-center}
{% include bootstrap/alert.md color="success" text="**Interested in becoming a collaborator?<br>** We'd love to talk to you more about it! **Contact** [Olivia Wikle](mailto:omwikle@uidaho.edu) for more information." %}
</div>
<div class="col-md-8" markdown="1">
{% include bootstrap/card.md text="
- [North Carolina Digital Collections](http://digital.ncdcr.gov/) (State Library of North Carolina and State Archives of North Carolina)
- [New College Digital Collections](https://dss.ncf.edu/digitalcollections/) (New College of Florida)
- [Latah County Historical Society](https://www.latahcountyhistoricalsociety.org/)" header="Current CollectionBuilder Partners" %}
</div>
</div>

Our highest hope for this project is to enable a small army of librarians to develop the type of tools and sites that keep the GLAM professionals in control and not subservient to bloated infrastructures and/or third-party contracts. We hope you will feel drawn to help us build that community.

Commit message:

add community link to discussion forum

_about/community.md, after:

---
title: Join Us!
sectionid: community
section_order: 5
---

## I'm interested. How can I get involved? 

If you, or some institution you know, might be interested in adopting this tool more seriously, we can help. Please [get in touch](mailto:omwikle@uidaho.edu) and help us guide the future of CollectionBuilder.

- **Feedback!** - If you have thoughts on the documentation, tool, visualizations, user interactions, or any other features in the tool, please *please* **please** provide us with feedback. Our intention in doing workshops and presentations is to gather feedback on the tool so that CollectionBuilder can continue to grow, becoming more useable and useful.
- **Ask Questions** - Get in contact on the [CollectionBuilder GitHub Discussion Forum](https://github.com/CollectionBuilder/collectionbuilder.github.io/discussions) to ask any technical questions or bring up issues you encounter.
- **Contribute** - If you take to the static web development model and would like to provide contributions of your own to our tool, we would LOVE to work with you and incorporate any contributions you might make. We have a [code of conduct](https://github.com/CollectionBuilder/collectionbuilder.github.io/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) for contributors.

<div class="row">
<div class="col-md-4" markdown="1">
{:.text-center}
{% include bootstrap/alert.md color="success" text="**Interested in becoming a collaborator?<br>** We'd love to talk to you more about it! **Contact** [Olivia Wikle](mailto:omwikle@uidaho.edu) for more information." %}
</div>
<div class="col-md-8" markdown="1">
{% include bootstrap/card.md text="
- [North Carolina Digital Collections](http://digital.ncdcr.gov/) (State Library of North Carolina and State Archives of North Carolina)
- [New College Digital Collections](https://dss.ncf.edu/digitalcollections/) (New College of Florida)
- [Latah County Historical Society](https://www.latahcountyhistoricalsociety.org/)" header="Current CollectionBuilder Partners" %}
</div>
</div>

Our highest hope for this project is to enable a small army of librarians to develop the type of tools and sites that keep the GLAM professionals in control and not subservient to bloated infrastructures and/or third-party contracts. We hope you will feel drawn to help us build that community.
